Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of
barren ground.

My library was dukedom large enough.

I will be correspondent to command, and do my spiriting gently.

Misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows.

Our revels row are ended: these our actors, as I foretold you,
were all spirits, and are melted into air, into thin air.

We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and our little life is
rounded with a sleep.

I think him so, because I think him so.

Oh jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible, as a nose on a man's
face or a weathercock on a steeple.

She is mine own, and I as rich in having such a jewel as twenty
seas, if all their sand were pearl, the water nectar, and the
rocks pure gold.

Familiarity breeds contempt.

Why, then the world is mine oyster, which I with sword will open.

He was ever precise in promise-keeping.

Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might
win, by fearing to attempt.

Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall.

Condemn the fault, and not the actor of it?

Oh, it is excellent to have a giant's strength; but it is
tyrannous to use it like a giant.

The miserable have no other medicine, but only hope.

The sense of death is most in apprehension; and the poor beetle
that we tread upon in corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
as when a giant dies.

The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good.

Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful.

Oh, what may man within him hide, though angel on the outward
side!

Truth is truth to the end of reckoning.

He wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat.

Friendship is constant in all other things, save in the office
and affairs of love. Therefore, all hearts in love use their own
tongues; let every eye negotiate for itself, and trust no other
agent.

Silence is the perfectest herald of joy; I were but little happy,
if I could say how much.

They say, there is divinity in odd numbers, either in nativity,
chance, or death.

I am sure care is an enemy to life.

It is beauty truly blent, whose red and white Nature's own sweet
and cunning hand laid on.

She never told her love, but let concealment, like a worm in the
bud, feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,

And, with a green and yellow melancholy, she sat, like Patience
on a monument, Smiling at grief.

Oh, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful in the contempt and
anger of his lip!

Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.

Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have
greatness thrust upon them.

Spirits are not finely touched but to fine issues.

Some, Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.

From the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all
mirth.

Everyone can master a grief, but he that hath it.

But man, proud man! Dressed in a little brief authority, plays
such fantastic tricks before high Heaven as make the angels weep.

To be a well-favored man is the gift of fortune; but to write
and read comes by nature.


Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go; and presently
call the rest of the watch together, and thank God you are rid
of a knave.

If they make you not then the better answer, you may say they
are not the men you took them for.

The most peaceable way for you if you do take a thief, is to let
him show himself what he is and steal out of your company.

The fashion wears out more apparel than the man.

Comparisons are odorous.

Men can counsel and speak comfort to that grief which they
themselves do not feel.

It is all men's office to speak patience to those that wring
under the load of sorrow, but not man's virtue nor sufficiency
to be so moral when he shall endure the like himself.


He hath indeed better bettered expectation.

Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain
awe a man from the career of his humor?

When I said I should die a bachelor, I did not think I should
live till I were married.

There was never yet a philosopher that could endure the
toothache patiently.

I was not born under a rhyming planet.

Light seeking light doth light of light beguile.

At Christmas I no more desire a rose than wish a snow in May's
new-fangled mirth; but like of each thing that in season grows.

Affliction may one day smile again; and till then, sit thee
down, sorrow!

For aught that ever I could read, could ever hear by tale or
history, the course of true love never did run smooth.

Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
and therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.

I'll speak in a monstrous little voice.

I am slow of study.

The rude sea grew civil at her song, and certain stars shot
madly from their spheres to hear the sea-maid's music.

A lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing.

The eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen,
man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his
heart to report, what my dream was.

Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, sit like his
grandsire cut in alabaster?

There are a sort of men whose visages do cream and mantle like a
standing pond.

I do know of these that therefore only are reputed wise for
saying nothing.

They are as sick that indulge with too much, as they that starve
with nothing.

When he is best, he is a little worse than a man; and when he is
worst, he is little better than a beast.

I dote on his very absence.

And as imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown,
the poet's pen turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing
a local habitation and a name.

He draws the thread of his verbosity
finer than the staple of his argument.

My meaning in saying he is a good man, is to have you understand
me that he is sufficient.

Ships are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats and
water-rats, water-thieves and land-thieves.

A goodly apple rotten at the heart: oh, what a goodly outside
falsehood hath!

His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels of
chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find them: and, when you
have them, they are not worth the search.

The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.

It is a wise father that knows his own child.

Truth will come to sight; murder cannot be hid long.

All that glisters is not gold.

Must I hold a candle to my shames?

But love is blind, and lovers cannot see
The pretty follies that themselves commit.

What, would you have a serpent sting you twice?

The quality of mercy is not strained, it drops, as the gentle
rain from heaven upon the place beneath. It is twice blessed;
it blesses him that gives, and him that takes.

How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!

The man that hath no music in himself, nor is not moved with
concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, stratagems, and
spoils.

You take my house when you take the prop that sustains my house;
you take my life when you take the means whereby I live.

He is well paid that is well satisfied.

How far that little candle throws his beams! So shines a good
deed in a naughty world.

How many things by season seasoned are to their right praise and
true perfection!

Well said; that was laid on with a trowel.

My pride fell with my fortunes.

O how full of briers is this working-day world!

Beauty provokes thieves sooner than gold.

Sweet are the uses of adversity, which, like the toad, ugly and
venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head;and this our
life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in
the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in every thing.

The big round tears coursed one another down his innocent nose
in piteous chase.

I shall never be ware of mine own wit till I break my shins
against it.

All the world is a stage and all the men and women merely
players; they have their exits and their entrances, and one man
in his time plays many parts

The whining schoolboy, with his satchel and shining morning face,
creeps like a snail unwillingly to school.

Blow, blow, thou winter wind, thou art not so unkind as man's
ingratitude.

I had rather have a fool to make me merry, than experience to
make me sad.

Men have died from time to time, and worms have eaten them, but
not for love.

The fool does think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to
be a fool.

How bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another
man's eyes!

I'll not budge an inch.

There's small choice in rotten apples.

No legacy is so rich as honesty.

The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together.

Is there no respect of place, parsons, nor time in you?

If this were played upon a stage now, I could condemn it as an
improbable fiction.

Praising what is lost makes the remembrance dear.

He will give the devil his due.


Two truths are told as happy prologues to the swelling act
of the imperial theme.

Present fears are less than horrible imaginings.

Come what come may, time and the hour runs through the roughest
day.

The better part of valor is discretion.

Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.

Nothing in his life became him like the leaving it.

Men of few words are the best men.

Delays have dangerous ends.

And many strokes, though with a little axe, hew down and fell the
hardest-timbered oak.

The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on.

Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind; the thief doth fear each
bush an officer.

The world is grown so bad, that wrens make prey where eagles dare
not perch.

True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings.

No man's pie is freed from his ambitious finger.

Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot that it do singe yourself.

It is better to be lowly born, and range with humble livers in
content, than to be perked up in a glistering grief, and wear a
golden sorrow.

It is a kind of good deed to say well; and yet words are
no deeds.

Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues we write
in water.

All lovers swear more performance than they are able, and yet
reserve an ability that they never perform; vowing more than the
perfection of ten, and discharging less than the tenth part
of one.

Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.

Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge.

He that is stricken blind cannot forget the precious treasure of
his eyesight lost.

Worry keeps his watch in every old man's eye, and where worry
lodges, sleep will never lie.

A gentleman that loves to hear himself talk will speak
more in a minute than he will stand to hear in a month.

These violent delights have violent ends.

Too swift arrives as tardy is too slow.

Meager were his looks, sharp misery had worn him to the bones.

Every man has his fault, and honesty is his.

We have seen better days.

Nothing emboldens sin so much as misplaced mercy.

Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never
taste of death but once.

If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.

This was the most unkindest cut of all.

Your face, my thane, is as a book, where men may read strange
matters.

Yet I do fear thy nature; it is too full of the milk of human
kindness to catch the nearest way.

This even-handed justice commends the ingredients of our
poisoned chalice to our own lips.

I have no spur to prick the sides of my intent, but only vaulting
ambition, which overleaps itself, and falls on the other.

I have bought golden opinions from all sorts of people.

Is this a dagger which I see before me, the handle towards
my hand?

Thou sure and firm-set earth, hear not my steps, which way they
walk, for fear the very stones prate of my whereabout.

The attempt, and not the deed, confounds us.

The labor we delight in, physics pain.

A falcon, towering in her pride of place, was by a mousing owl
hawked at, and killed.

But now, I am cabined, cribbed, confined bound in to saucy
doubts and fears.

Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.

By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.

I cannot but remember such things were, that were most precious
to me.

When our actions do not, our fears do make us traitors.

I would applaud thee to the very echo, that should applaud again.

Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace
from day to day, to the last syllable of recorded time. And all
our yesterdays have lighted fools the way to dusty death. Out,
out, brief candle!

The night is long that never finds the day.

Life is but a walking shadow; a poor player, that struts and
frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more.

I bear a charmed life.

Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale, vexing the dull ear of
a drowsy man.

He hath eaten me out of house and home.

Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep.

Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
And all the clouds that lowered upon our house,
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.

Oh, I have passed a miserable night,so full of fearful dreams,
of ugly sights, that, as I am a Christian faithful man,
I would not spend another such a night, though it were to buy a
world of happy days.

An honest tale speeds best, being plainly told

I have set my life upon a cast, and I will stand the hazard of
the die.

A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a horse!

Seldom he smiles; and smiles in such a sort, as if he mocked
himself, and scorned his spirit, that could be moved to smile at
anything.

But, for mine own part, it was Greek to me.

Between the acting of a dreadful thing and the first motion,
all the interim is like a phantasma, or a hideous dream.

Weariness can snore upon the flint, when restive sloth finds the
down pillow hard.

How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is, to have a thankless
child.

Blow, wind, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!

Tremble, thou wretch, that hast within thee undivulged crimes,
unwhipped of justice.

Through tattered clothes small vices do appear;
robes and furred gowns hide all.

He jests at scars, that never felt a wound.

What's in a name? that which we call a rose
By any other name would smell as sweet.

Neither a borrower nor a lender be.

Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.

I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word would harrow up
thy soul; freeze thy young blood; make thy two eyes, like stars,
start from their spheres.

Thy knotted and combined locks to part, and each particular hair
to stand on end, like quills upon the fretful porcupine.

There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave, to tell
us this.

The time is out of joint.

Brevity is the soul of wit.

Though this be madness, yet there's method in it.

I know a hawk from a handsaw.

Come, give us a taste of your quality.

The play is the thing, wherein I'll catch the conscience of the
king.

To be, or not to be? that is the question: Whether it is nobler
in the mind, to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous
fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles...

To sleep! perchance, to dream -- aye, there's the rub; for in
that sleep of death what dreams may come, when we have shuffled
off this mortal coil, must give us pause.

Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh.

Suit the action to the word, the word to the action.

To hold, as it were, the mirror up to nature.

I have thought some of nature's journeymen had made men,
and not made them well,they imitated humanity so abominably.

Give me that man that is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
in my heart's core, aye, in my heart of hearts, as I do thee.

The lady doth protest too much, methinks.

When sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions!

There's such divinity doth hedge a king, that treason can but
peep to what it would.

The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.

I do perceive hero a divided duty.

For I am nothing, if not critical.

A dream itself is but a shadow.

Silence that dreadful bell; it frights the isle from her
propriety.

O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be
known by, let us call thee devil!

Good name, in man and woman, dear my lord, is the immediate
jewel of their souls.

O, beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-eyed monster,
which doth make the meat it feeds on.

Trifles, light as air, are, to the jealous, confirmations strong
as proofs of holy writ.

Give me the ocular proof.

But this denoted a foregone conclusion.

They laugh that win.

It is neither here nor there.

He hath a daily beauty in his life.

I have done the state some service, and they know it.

Except wind stands as never it stood, it is an ill wind turns
none to good.

And out of mind as soon as out of sight.

Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.

Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with this
special observance, that you overstep not the modesty of nature.

There's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half a
year.

Our wills and fates do so contrary run that our devices still
are overthrown.

Do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe?

Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.

I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.

I am not merry; but I do beguile the thing I am, by seeming
otherwise.

How poor are they that have not patience!

Poor and content is rich and rich enough.

I understand a fury in your words, but not the words.

Men's judgments are a parcel of their fortunes; and things
outward do draw the inward quality after them, to suffer
all alike.

I have not slept one wink.

For greatest scandal waits on greatest state.

Full many a glorious morning have I seen.

My grief lies onward and my joy behind.

The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odor which doth in it live.

I hold every man a debtor to his profession; from the which
as men of course do seek to receive countenance and profit, so
ought they of duty to endeavor themselves by way of amends to
be a help and ornament thereunto.

No pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage
ground of truth.

Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark; and as that
natural fear in children is increased with tales, so is the
other.

Revenge is a kind of wild justice, which the more man's nature
runs to, the more ought law to weed it out.

Prosperity is not without many fears and distastes; and adversity
is not without comforts and hopes.

Virtue is like precious odors,—most fragrant when they are
incensed or crushed

Men in great place are thrice servants,—servants of the
sovereign or state, servants of fame, and servants of business.

The desire of power in excess caused the angels to fall; the desire of
knowledge in excess caused man to fall.

The remedy is worse than the disease.

Travel, in the younger sort, is a part of education; in the
elder, a part of experience. He that travels into a country
before he has some entrance into the language, goes to school,
and not to travel.

Princes are like to heavenly bodies, which cause good or evil
times, and which have much veneration but no rest.

There is a cunning which we in England call "the turning of the
cat in the pan;" which is, when that which a man says to another,
he lays it as if another had said it to him.

Discretion of speech is more than eloquence; and to speak
agreeably to him with whom we deal is more than to speak in good
words or in good order.

Men's thoughts are much according to their inclination, their
discourse and speeches according to their learning and infused
opinions.

Virtue is like a rich stone, best plain set.

Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some
few to be chewed and digested.


Reading makes a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an
exact man.

Histories make men wise, poets witty; the mathematics, subtle;
natural philosophy, deep, moral, grave; logic and rhetoric,
able to contend.

Books must follow sciences, and not sciences books.

Knowledge is power.

The world 's a bubble, and the life of man less than a span.

The best way to keep good acts in memory was to refresh them
with new.

I smell a rat.

The better day, the better deed.

The worst comes to the worst.

Ground not upon dreams; you know they are ever contrary.

Have you summoned your wits from wool-gathering?

The world 's a stage on which all parts are played.

Turn over a new leaf.

How happy is he born or taught,
That serves not another's will;
Whose armor is his honest thought,
And simple truth his utmost skill!

As it fell upon a day
In the merry month of May,
Sitting in a pleasant shade
Which a grove of myrtles made.

Much like a subtle spider which doth sit
In middle of her web, which spreads wide;
If aught do touch the utmost thread of it,
She feels it instantly on every side.

Ye gentlemen of England
That live at home at ease,
Ah! little do you think upon
The dangers of the seas.

She and comparisons are odious.

Who are a little wise the best fools be.

Courses even with the sun
Doth her mighty brother run.

Love is like a landscape which doth stand
Smooth at a distance, rough at hand.

We 're charmed with distant views of happiness,
But near approaches make the prospect less.

As distant prospects please us, but when near
We find but desert rocks and fleeting air.

A wise man poor
Is like a sacred book that's never read,
To himself he lives, and to all else seems dead.
This age thinks better of a gilded fool
Than of a threadbare saint in wisdom's school.

This principle is old, but true as fate,
Kings may love treason, but the traitor hate.

Honest labor bears a lovely face.

Moderation is the silken string running through the pearl
chain of all virtues.

There is many a rich stone laid up in the bowels of the earth,
many a fair pearl laid up in the bosom of the sea, that never
was seen, nor never shall be.

Let us do or die.

He went away with a flea in his ear.

Naught so sweet as melancholy.

Aesop's fox, when he had lost his tail, would have all his
fellow foxes cut off theirs.

Cookery is become an art, a noble science; cooks are gentlemen.

Why doth one man's yawning make another yawn?

A nightingale dies for shame if another bird sings better.

The rich are indeed rather possessed by their money than
possessors.

Birds of a feather will flock together.

No cord nor cable can so forcibly draw, or hold so fast, as love
can do with a twined thread.

He is only fantastical that is not in fashion.

To these crocodile tears they will add sobs, fiery sighs, and
sorrowful countenance.

The miller sees not all the water that goes by his mill.

Humility is a virtue all preach, none practice; and yet everybody
is content to hear.

Few men make themselves masters of the things they write or
speak.

They that govern the most make the least noise.

Beggars must be no choosers.

There is no jesting with edge tools.

Though I am young, I scorn to flit
On the wings of borrowed wit.

And I oft have heard defended,
Little said is soonest mended.

Gather ye rosebuds while ye may,
Old Time is still a-flying,
And this same flower that smiles today
Tomorrow will be dying.

Come live with me, and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove
That valleys, groves, and hills, and folds,
Woods, or steepy mountains, yield.

If all the world and love were young,
And truth in every shepherd's tongue,
These pretty pleasures might me move
To live with thee, and be thy love.

Silence in love betrays more love
Than words, though never so witty;
A beggar that is dumb, you know,
May challenge double pity.

Go, Soul, the body's guest,
Upon a thankless errand!
Fear not to touch the best:
The truth shall be thy warrant.

The noblest mind the best contentment has.

I was promised on a time
To have reason for my rhyme;
From that time unto this season,
I received nor rhyme nor reason.

For of the soul the body form doth take,
For soul is form, and doth the Body make.

How happy is he born and taught,
That serves not another's will;
Whose armor is his honest thought,
And simple truth his utmost skill!

Lord of himself, though not of lands;
And having nothing, yet hath all.

You meaner beauties of the night,
That poorly satisfy our eyes
More by your number than your light!

Drink to me only with thine eyes,
And I will pledge with mine;
Or leave a kiss but in the cup,
And I'll not look for wine.

Still to be neat, still to be dressed
As you were going to a feast.

Give me a look, give me a face,
That makes simplicity a grace.

In small proportion we just beauties see,
And in short measures life may perfect be.

Underneath this stone doth lie
As much beauty as could die;
Which in life did harbor give
To more virtue than doth live.

Be wisely worldly, be not worldly wise.

Sweet day, so cool, so cairn, so bright,
The bridal of the earth and skies.

Sweet spring, full of sweet days and roses,
A box where sweets compacted lie.

Only a sweet and virtuous soul,
Like seasoned timber, never gives.

Wouldst thou both eat thy cake and have it?

His bark is worse than his bite.

The offender never pardons.

It is a poor sport that is not worth the candle.

A dwarf on a giant's shoulders sees farther of the two.

Her feet beneath her petticoat,
Like little mice, stole in and out,
As if they feared the light;
But oh! she dances such a way!

Her lips were red, and one was thin,
Compared with that was next her chin,
Some bee had stung it newly.

Why so pale and wan, fond lover,
Prithee, why so pale?
Will, when looking well can't move her,
Looking ill prevail?

Her pretty feet, like snails, did creep
A little out, and then,
As if they played at bo-peep,
Did soon draw in again.

Her eyes the glowworm lend thee,
The shooting stars attend thee;
And the elves also, whose little eyes glow
Like the sparks of fire, befriend thee.

Thus times do shift, each thing his turn does hold;
New things succeed, as former things grow old.

Attempt the end, and never stand to doubt;
Nothing is so hard but search will find it out.

Oh! could you view the melody of every grace,
And music of her face, you'd drop a tear;
Seeing more harmony in her bright eye,
Than now you hear.

I could not love thee, dear, so much,
Loved I not honor more.

To write a verse or two is all the praise
That I can raise.

Dare to be true: nothing can need a lie;
A fault which needs it most, grows two thereby.

Chase brave employment with a naked sword
Throughout the world.

That which is everybody's business is nobody's business.

No man can lose what he never had.

Only the actions of the just
Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.

Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron barres a cage;
Minds innocent, and quiet, take
That for an hermitage.

If I have freedom in my love,
And in my soul am free,
Angels alone that soar above
Enjoy such liberty.

Only the actions of the just
Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.

We grant, although he had much wit,
He was very shy of using it.

The conscious water saw its God and blushed.

A happy soul, that all the way
To heaven hath a summer's day.

What shall I do to be forever known,
And make the age to come my own?

His faith, perhaps, in some nice tenets might
Be wrong; his life, I'm sure, was in the right.

The thirsty earth soaks up the rain,
And drinks, and gapes for drink again;
The plants suck in the earth, and are
With constant drinking fresh and fair.

O could I flow like thee, and make thy stream
My great example, as it is my theme!

Though deep, yet clear; though gentle, yet not dull;
Strong without rage; without overflowing, full.

Actions of the last age are like almanacs of the last year.

The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed,
Lets in new light through chinks that time has made.
Stronger by weakness, wiser men become,
As they draw near to their eternal home.

Like a young eagle, who has lent his plume
To fledge the shaft by which he meets his doom,
See their own feathers plucked to wing the dart
Which rank corruption destines for their heart.

A narrow compass! and yet there
Dwelt all that's good, and all that's fair;
Give me but what this ribbon bound,
Take all the rest the sun goes round.

How small a part of time they share
That are so wondrous sweet and fair!

The eagle's fate and mine are one,
Which, on the shaft that made him die,
Espied a feather of his own,
Wherewith he wont to soar so high.

One that will not plead that cause wherein his tongue must be
confuted by his conscience.

Where peace and rest can never dwell; hope never comes,
that comes to all.

Awake, arise, or be forever fallen!

Thrice he assayed, and thrice, in spite of scorn,
Tears, such as angels weep, burst forth.

Who overcomes by force, hath overcome but half his foe.

But all was false and hollow, though his tongue
Dropped manna; and could make the worse appear
The better reason, to perplex and dash
Maturest counsels.

Their rising all at once was as the sound
Of thunder heard remote.

See golden days, fruitful of golden deeds,
With joy and love triumphing.

Good, the more communicated, more abundant grows.

Dire was the noise of conflict.

Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye,
In every gesture dignity and love.

Her virtue and the conscience of her worth,
That would be wooed and not unsought be won.

For solitude sometimes is best society,
And short retirement urges sweet return.

Revenge, at first though sweet,
Bitter ere long back on itself recoils.

He's gone, and who knows how he may report
Thy words, by adding fuel to the flame?

A thousand fantasies begin to throng into my memory,
Of calling shapes and beckoning shadows dire,
And airy tongues, that syllable men's names
On sands, and shores, and desert wildernesses.

Was I deceived, or did a sable cloud
Turn forth her silver lining on the night?

He that has light within his own clear breast
May sit in the center and enjoy bright day;
But he that hides a dark soul and foul thoughts
Benighted walks under the midday sun,

He knew himself to sing, and build the lofty rhyme.

So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed,
And yet anon repairs his drooping head,
And tricks his beams, with new spangled ore
Flames in the forehead of the morning sky.

And every shepherd tells his tale
Under the hawthorn in the dale.

Come, and trip it as you go,
On the light, fantastic toe.

Towered cities please us then,
And the busy hum of men.

And looks commercing with the skies,
Thy rapt soul sitting in thine eyes.

Sweet bird, that shuns the noise of folly,
Most musical, most melancholy!

He knew what's what, and that's as high
As metaphysic wit can fly.

For rhyme the rudder is of verses,
With which, like ships, they steer their courses.

He never considered it, as loth
To look a gift-horse in the mouth.

With many a stiff thwack, many a bang,
Hard crab-tree and old iron rang.

Aye me! what perils do environ
The man that meddles with cold iron.

I am not now in fortune's power;
He that is down can fall no lower.

For one for sense, and one for rhyme,
I think is sufficient at one time.

For what is worth in anything,
But so much money as it will bring.

Look before you ere you leap;
For as you sow, you are like to reap.

He made an instrument to know
If the moon shine at full or no....
And prove that she's not made of green cheese.

There's but the twinkling of a star
Between a man of peace and war.

But still his tongue ran on, the less
Of weight it bore, with greater ease.

You are taking the wrong sow by the ear.

True as the dial to the sun,
Although it be not shined upon.

For those that fly may fight again,
Which he can never do that's slain.

He that complies against his will
Is of his own opinion still.

Poets lose half the praise they should have got,
Could it be known what they discreetly blot.

I'll make thee famous by my pen,
And glorious by my sword.

None but the brave deserves the fair.

Soothed with the sound, the king grew vain;
Fought all his battles over again;
And thrice he routed all his foes;
And thrice he slew the slain.

Look round the habitable world: how few
Know their own good, or knowing it, pursue.

Immodest words admit of no defense,
For want of decency is want of sense.

I do not know what I may appear to the world; but to myself I
seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, and
diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a
prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth
lay all undiscovered before me.

It is a very good world to live in,
To lend, or to spend, or to give in;
But to beg or to borrow, or to get a man's own,
It is the very worst world that ever was known.

Of all those arts in which the wise excel,
Nature's chief masterpiece is writing well.

Many a dangerous temptation comes to us in fine gay colors that
are but skin-deep.

There are none so deaf as those that will not hear.

There are none so blind as those that will not see.

They that die by famine die by inches.

It is not fit that the public trusts should be lodged in the
hands of any, till they are first proved and found fit for the
business they are to be entrusted with.

Of all the days that's in the week
I dearly love but one day,
And that 's the day that comes betwixt
A Saturday and Monday.

For pity melts the mind to love.

The end must justify the means.

For hope is but the dream of those that wake.

He trudged along, unknowing what he sought,
And whistled as he went, for want of thought.

Who think too little, and who talk too much

A man so various, that he seemed to be
Not one, but all mankind's epitome;
Stiff in opinions, always in the wrong,
Was everything by starts, and nothing long.

Beware the fury of a patient man.

Errors like straws upon the surface flow;
He who would search for pearls must dive below.

Men are but children of a larger growth.

Happy the man, and happy he alone,
He, who can call today his own:
He who, secure within, can say,
Tomorrow do thy worst, for I have lived today.

Here lies our sovereign lord the king,
Whose word no man relies on;
He never says a foolish thing,
Nor ever does a wise one.

How fading are the joys we dote upon!
Like apparitions seen and gone;
But those which soonest take their flight

Virtue is her own reward.

When vice prevails, and impious men bear sway,
The post of honor is a private station.

It is the Divinity that stirs within us;
It is Heaven itself that points out an hereafter,
And intimates Eternity to man.

Happy who in his verse can gently steer
From grave to light, from pleasant to severe.

Every age has its pleasures, its style of wit, and its own ways.

It may be said that his wit shines at the expense of his memory.

Facts are stubborn things.

Love truth, but pardon error.

If the end be well, all is well.

Whatever you do, do wisely, and think of the consequences.

The soul secured in her existence, smiles
At the drawn dagger, and defies its point.

For wheresoever I turn my ravished eyes,
Gay gilded scenes and shining prospects rise;
Poetic fields encompass me around,
And still I seem to tread on classic ground.

Unbounded courage and compassion joined,
Tempering each other in the victor's mind,
Alternately proclaim him good and great,
And make the hero and the man complete.

The spacious firmament on high,
With all the blue, ethereal sky,
And spangled heavens, a shining frame,
Their great Original proclaim.

Soon as the evening shades prevail,
The moon takes up the wondrous tale,
And nightly to the listening earth
Repeats the story of her birth.

While all the stars that round her burn,
And all the planets in their turn,
Confirm the tidings as they roll,
And spread the truth from pole to pole.

The Lord my pasture shall prepare,
And feed me with a shepherd's care;
His presence shall my wants supply,
And guard me with a watchful eye.

Much may be said on both sides.

Round-heads and wooden-shoes are standing jokes

At length the morn and cold indifference came.

But, children, you should never let
Such angry passions rise;
Your little hands were never made
To tear each other's eyes.

Birds in their little nests agree;
And 'tis a shameful sight
When children of one family
Fall out, and chide, and fight.

How doth the little busy bee
Improve each shining hour,
And gather honey all the day
From every opening flower!

For Satan finds some mischief still
For idle hands to do.

Fly, like a youthful hart or roe,
Over the hills where spices grow.

Strange that a harp of thousand strings
Should keep in tune so long!

Flowery oratory he despised. He ascribed to the interested views
of themselves or their relatives the declarations of pretended
patriots, of whom he said, "All those men have their price."

Let those love now who never loved before;
Let those who always loved, now love the more.

Be wise today; it is madness to defer.

Procrastination is the thief of time.

All men think all men mortal but themselves.

Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast.
To soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak.

Defer not till tomorrow to be wise,
Tomorrow's sun to thee may never rise

Eye nature's walks, shoot folly as it flies,
And catch the manners living as they rise.

Why has not man a microscopic eye?
For this plain reason,—man is not a fly.

Hope springs eternal in the human breast:
Man never IS, but always TO BE blessed.

One truth is clear, whatever is, is right.

Know then thyself, presume not God to scan;
The proper study of mankind is man.

The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine!
Feels at each thread, and lives along the line.

Remembrance and reflection how allied!
What thin partitions sense from thought divide!

Vice is a monster of so frightful mien,
As to be hated, needs but to be seen;
But seen too oft, familiar with her face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace.

Virtuous and vicious every man must be,
Few in the extreme, but all in the degree.

Honor and shame from no condition rise;
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.

Slave to no sect, who takes no private road,
But looks through nature up to nature's God.

'Tis education forms the common mind:
Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined.

Who shall decide when doctors disagree?

But thousands die without or this or that,
Die, and endow a college or a cat.

The ruling passion, be it what it will,
The ruling passion conquers reason still.

Extremes in Nature equal good produce;
Extremes in man concur to general use.

Who builds a church to God, and not to fame,
Will never mark the marble with his name.

'Tis with our judgments as our watches; none
Go just alike, yet each believes his own.

One science only will one genius fit:
So vast is art, so narrow human wit.

True wit is nature to advantage dressed,
What oft was thought, but never so well expressed.

Words are like leaves; and where they most abound,
Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found.

True ease in writing comes from art, not chance,
As those move easiest who have learned to dance.
'Tis not enough no harshness gives offense,
The sound must seem an echo to the sense.

In words, as fashions, the same rule will hold,
Alike fantastic if too new or old:
Be not the first by whom the new are tried,
Nor yet the last to lay the old aside.

Envy will merit as its shade pursue,
But like a shadow proves the substance true.

To err is human: to forgive, divine.

All seems infected that the infected spy,
As all looks yellow to the jaundiced eye.

The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read,
With loads of learned lumber in his head.

Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.

At every word a reputation dies.

No creature smarts so little as a fool.

Cursed be the verse, how well so e'er it flow,
That tends to make one worthy man my foe.

Praise undeserved is scandal in disguise.

Who love too much, hate in the like extreme.

Party is the madness of many for the gain of a few.

For he lives twice who can at once employ
The present well, and even the past enjoy.

I hear a voice you cannot hear,
Which says I must not stay,
I see a hand you cannot see,
Which beckons me away.

At thirty man suspects himself a fool;
Knows it at forty, and reforms his plan.

How blessings brighten as they take their flight!

Man makes a death, which nature never made.

Man wants but little, nor that little long.

The man of wisdom is the man of years.

Some, for renown, on scraps of learning dote,
And think they grow immortal as they quote.

Be wise with speed; a fool at forty is a fool indeed.

Our youth we can have but today,
We may always find time to grow old.

None think the powerful unhappy, but the powerful.

'Tis but a part we see, and not a whole.

Where nature's end of language is declined,
And men talk only to conceal their mind.

Few things are impossible to diligence and skill.

Many things difficult to design prove easy to performance.

It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives.

A man may write at any time if he will set himself doggedly
to it.

Knowledge is of two kinds: we know a subject ourselves, or we
know where we can find information upon it.

Hark! from the tombs a doleful sound.
It is the voice of the sluggard, I heard him complain,
"You have waked me too soon, I must slumber again."

Base envy withers at another's joy,
And hates that excellence it cannot reach.

Loveliness needs not the foreign aid of ornament,
But is when unadorned, adorned the most.

Autumn nodded over the yellow plain.

Ever charming, ever new,
When will the landscape tire the view.

I am always in haste, but never in a hurry.

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little
temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.

Do you love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the
stuff life is made of.

Early to bed and early to rise,
Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.

Never leave that till tomorrow which you can do today.

Little strokes fell great oaks.

A little neglect may breed mischief: for want of a nail the shoe
was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; and for want of
a horse the rider was lost.

Vessels large may venture more,
But little boats should keep near shore.

A penny saved is a penny earned.

Where law ends, tyranny begins.

Of all the griefs that harass the distressed,
Sure the most bitter is a scornful jest.

For we that live to please must please to live.

Employment, sir, and hardships prevent melancholy.

The use of traveling is to regulate imagination by reality, and
instead of thinking how things may be, to see them as they are.

The law is the last result of human wisdom acting upon human
experience for the benefit of the public.

Dictionaries are like watches; the worst is better than none,
and the best cannot be expected to go quite true.

How small, of all that human hearts endure,
That part which laws or kings can cause or cure!
Still to ourselves in every place consigned,
Our own felicity we make or find.

With secret course, which no loud storms annoy,
Glides the smooth current of domestic joy.

None without hope ever loved the brightest fair,
But love can hope where reason would despair.

Where none admire, it is useless to excel;
Where none are beaux, it is vain to be a belle.

Alas! by some degree of woe
We every bliss must gain;
The heart can never a transport know,
That never feels a pain.

Can't I another's face commend,
And to her virtues be a friend,
But instantly your forehead lowers,
As if HER merit lessened YOURS?

Time still, as he flies, adds increase to her truth,
And gives to her mind what he steals from her youth.

Their cause I plead -- plead it in heart and mind;
A fellow-feeling makes one wondrous kind.

Let others hail the rising sun;
I bow to that whose race is run.

The paths of glory lead but to the grave.

Where through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault
The pealing anthem swells the note of praise.

Hands, that the rod of empire might have swayed,
Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre.

Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desert air.

The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that swells the gale,
The common sun, the air, the skies,
To him are opening paradise.

How sleep the brave, who sink to rest,
By all their country's wishes blessed!

By fairy hands their knell is rung;
By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
There Honor comes, a pilgrim gray,
To bless the turf that wraps their clay.

The man forget not, though in rags he lies,
And know the mortal through a crown's disguise.

From our own selves our joys must flow,
And that dear hut -- our home.

Thus hand in hand through life we'll go;
Its checkered paths of joy and woe
With cautious steps we'll tread.

Such is the patriot's boast, where ere we roam,
His first, best country ever is at home.

Pride in their port, defiance in their eye,
I see the lords of human kind pass by.

Laws grind the poor, and rich men rule the law.

Though much I want that most would have,
Yet still my mind forbids to crave.

How hard their lot who neither won nor lost.

But spite of all the criticizing elves,
Those who would make us feel -- must feel themselves.

The tree of deepest root is found
Least willing still to quit the ground.

He is the freeman whom the truth makes free.

How sweet, how passing sweet is solitude!
But grant me still a friend in my retreat,
Whom I may whisper, Solitude is sweet.

What peaceful hours I once enjoyed?
How sweet their memory still!
But they have left an aching void,
The world can never fill.

I am monarch of all I survey,
My right there is none to dispute.

Men who their duties know,
But know their rights, and, knowing, dare maintain.
Where they do agree, their unanimity is wonderful.

Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen;
Here's to the widow of fifty;
Here's to the flaunting, extravagant queen,
And here's to the housewife that's thrifty.

In idle wishes fools supinely stay;
Be there a will, then wisdom finds a way.

Man's inhumanity to man
Makes countless thousands mourn.

And what is impossible can't be,
And never, never comes to pass.

She lived unknown, and few could know
When Lucy ceased to be;
But she is in her grave, and oh!
The difference to me!

Some natural sorrow, loss, or pain,
That has been, and may be again.

The music in my heart I bore,
Long after it was heard no more.

Because the good old rule
Suffice them, the simple plan,
That they should take who have the power,
And they should keep who can.

The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers.

I have seen
A curious child, who dwelt upon a tract
Of inland ground, applying to his ear
The convolutions of a smooth-lipped shell.

Water, water, everywhere,
Nor any drop to drink.

Alone, alone, all, all alone,
Alone on a wide, wide sea.

He prays well, who loves well
Both man and bird and beast.
He prays best, who loves best
All things, both great and small.

Alas! they had been friends in youth;
But whispering tongues can poison truth:
And constancy lives in realms above.

The rose is fairest when it is budding new,
And hope is brightest when it dawns from fears.

O many a shaft, at random sent,
Finds mark, the archer little meant!
And many a word at random spoken
May soothe, or wound, a heart that's broken!

Alas! how light a cause may move
Dissension between hearts that love!
Hearts that the world in vain had tried,
And sorrow but more closely tied.

All that's bright must fade --
The brightest still the fleetest;
All that's sweet was made
But to be lost when sweetest.

There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none intrudes
By the deep Sea, and music in its roar.

She walks in beauty, like the night
Of cloudless climes and starry skies;
And all that's best of dark and bright
Meet in her aspect and her eyes.

When Freedom from her mountain height
Unfurled her standard to the air,
She tore the azure robe of night,
And set the stars of glory there.

A thing of beauty is a joy forever.

Music's golden tongue flattered to tears this aged man and poor.

Mine be a cot beside the hill;
A beehive's hum shall soothe my ear;
A willowy brook, that turns a mill,
With many a fall, shall linger near.

Beneath the rule of men entirely great
The pen is mightier than the sword.

We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives
Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best.

Know how sublime a thing it is
To suffer and be strong.

Set every threadbare sail,
And give her to the god of storms,
The lightning and the gale.

And what is so rare as a day in June?
Then, if ever, come perfect days;
Then Heaven tries the earth if it be in tune,
And over it softly her warm ear lays.

Large streams from little fountains flow,
Tall oaks from little acorns grow.

Thought is deeper than all speech;
Feeling deeper than all thought;
Souls to souls can never teach
What unto themselves was taught.

In the hour of adversity be not without hope, for crystal rain
falls from black clouds.

Like an earthen pot, a bad man is easily broken, and cannot
readily be restored to his former situation; but a virtuous man,
like a vase of gold, is broken with difficulty, and easily
repaired.

Let us not overstrain our abilities, or we shall do nothing with
grace. A clown, whatever he may do, will never pass for a
gentleman.

In no wise ask about the faults of others, for he who reports the
faults of others will report thine also.

Nothing is more becoming a man than silence. It is not the
preaching but the practice which ought to be considered as the
more important. A profusion of words is sure to lead to error.

The friendship of the bad is like the shade of some precipitous
bank with crumbling sides, which, falling, buries him who is
beneath.

Let a man’s talents or virtues be what they may, we feel
satisfaction in his society only as he is satisfied in himself.
We cannot enjoy the good qualities of a friend if he seems to be
none the better for them.

He is not dead who departs this life with high fame; dead is he,
though living, whose brow is branded with infamy.

It is difficult to understand men, but still harder to know them
thoroughly.

Worldly fame and pleasure are destructive to the virtue of the
mind; anxious thoughts and apprehensions are injurious to the
health of the body.

Through avarice a man loses his understanding, and by his thirst
for wealth he gives pain to the inhabitants of both worlds.

Men soon the faults of others learn,
A few their virtues, too, find out;
But is there one—I have a doubt—
Who can his own defects discern?

Unsullied poverty is always happy, while impure wealth brings
with it many sorrows.

We are never so much disposed to quarrel with others as when we
are dissatisfied with ourselves.

No one is more profoundly sad than he who laughs too much.

This world is a beautiful book, but of little use to him who
cannot read it.

Sorrows are like thunder-clouds: in the distance they look black,
over our heads, hardly gray.

The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected
without trials.

Health is the greatest gift, contentedness the best riches.

Great and unexpected successes are often the cause of foolish
rushing into acts of extravagance.

Good fortune is a benefit to the wise, but a curse to the
foolish.

In this thing one man is superior to another, that he is better
able to bear adversity and prosperity.

Who aims at excellence will be above mediocrity; who aims at
mediocrity will be far short of it.

We ought never to mock the wretched, for who can be sure of being
always happy?

To those who err in judgment, not in will, anger is gentle.

He who formerly was reckless and afterwards became sober
brightens up this world like the moon when freed from clouds.

When a base fellow cannot vie with another in merit he will
attack him with malicious slander.

The greatest men sometimes overshoot themselves, but then their
very mistakes are so many lessons of instruction.

He who seeks wealth sacrifices his own pleasure, and, like him
who carries burdens for others, bears the load of anxiety.

A woman will not throw away a garland, though soiled, which her
lover gave; not in the object lies a present’s worth, but in the
love which it was meant to mark.

Men who have not observed discipline, and have not gained
treasure in their youth, perish like old herons in a lake
without fish.

Let thy words between two foes be such that if they were to
become friends thou shouldst not be ashamed.

There never was, there never will be, a man who is always
praised, or a man who is always blamed.

A good man’s intellect is piercing, yet inflicts no wound; his
actions are deliberate, yet bold; his heart is warm, but never
burns; his speech is eloquent, yet ever true.

He who can feel ashamed will not readily do wrong.

A stranger who is kind is a kinsman; an unkind kinsman is a
stranger.

The good to others kindness show,
And from them no return exact;
The best and greatest men, they know,
Thus ever nobly love to act.

Trees loaded with fruit are bent down; the clouds when charged
with fresh rain hang down near the earth: even so good men are
not uplifted through prosperity. Such is the natural character
of the liberal.

The man who neither gives in charity nor enjoys his wealth,
which every day increases, breathes, indeed, like the bellows
of a smith, but cannot be said to live.

That energy which veils itself in mildness is most effective of
its object.

It is our follies that make our lives uncomfortable. Our errors
of opinion, our cowardly fear of the world’s worthless censure,
and our eagerness after unnecessary gold have hampered the way
of virtue, and made it far more difficult than, in itself, it is.

There is not half so much danger in the desperate sword of a
known foe as in the smooth insinuations of a pretended friend.

The truest characters of ignorance
Are vanity, pride, and arrogance;
As blind men use to bear their noses higher
Than those that have their eyes and sight entire.

It is difficult to personate and act a part long, for where
truth is not at the bottom Nature will always be endeavoring to
return, and will peep out and betray herself one time or other.

It is better to be well deserving without praise than to live by
the air of undeserved commendation.

He travels safe and not unpleasantly who is guarded by poverty
and guided by love.

Never put thyself in the way of temptation: even David could not
resist it.

By six qualities may a fool be known: anger without cause;
speech without profit; change without motive; inquiry without
an object; trust in a stranger; and incapacity to discriminate
between friend and foe.

Pride is a vice which pride itself inclines every man to find in
others and overlook in himself.

Men are not to be judged by their looks, habits, and appearances,
but by the character of their lives and conversations. ’Tis
better that a man’s own works than another man’s words should
praise him.

To exert his power in doing good is man’s most glorious task.

Anger that has no limit causes terror, and unseasonable kindness
does away with respect. Be not so severe as to cause disgust,
nor so lenient as to make people presume.

Be patient, if thou wouldst thy ends accomplish; for like
patience is there no appliance effective of success, producing
certainly abundant fruit of actions, never damped by failure,
conquering all impediments.

Most men, even the most accomplished, are of limited faculties; every
one sets a value on certain qualities in himself and others: these
alone he is willing to favor, these alone will he have cultivated.

If you injure a harmless person, the evil will fall back upon you,
like light dust thrown up against the wind.

A wise man takes a step at a time; he establishes one foot
before he takes up the other: an old place should not be forsaken
recklessly.

There are no riches like the sweetness of content, nor poverty
comparable to the want of patience.

In the body restraint is good; good is restraint in speech; in
thought restraint is good: good is restraint in all things.

A man eminent in learning has not even a little virtue if he
fears to practice it. What precious things can be shown to a
blind man when he holds a lamp in his hand?

Good actions lead to success, as good medicines to a cure: a
healthy man is joyful, and a diligent man attains learning; a
just man gains the reward of his virtue.

Purpose without power is mere weakness and deception; and power
without purpose is mere fatuity.

Riches disclose in a man’s character the bad qualities formerly
concealed in his poverty.

Parents' affection is best shown by their teaching their children
industry and self-denial.

There are three things to beware of through life: when a man is
young, let him beware of his appetites; when he is middle-aged,
of his passions; and when old, of covetousness, especially.

I never yet found pride in a noble nature nor humility in an
unworthy mind.

Worldly fame is but a breath of wind, that blows now this way,
now that, and changes name as it changes sides.

Never does a man portray his own character more vividly than in
his manner of portraying another.

He who devises evil for another falls at last into his own pit,
and the most cunning finds himself caught by what he had prepared
for another. But virtue without guile, erect like the lofty palm,
rises with greater vigor when it is oppressed.

If you wish to know how much preferable wisdom is to gold, then
observe: if you change gold you get silver for it, but your gold
is gone; but if you exchange one sort of wisdom for another, you
obtain fresh knowledge, and at the same time keep what you
possessed before.

Be cautious in your intercourse with the powerful; they seldom
confer obligations on their inferiors but from interested
motives. Friendly they appear as long as it serves their turn,
but they will render no assistance in time of actual need.

Two sources of success are known: wisdom and effort; make them
both thine own, if thou wouldst haply rise.

The worse the ill that fate on noble souls
Inflicts, the more their firmness; and they arm
Their spirits with adamant to meet the blow.

The man of affluence is not in fact more happy than the possessor
of a bare competency, unless, in addition to his wealth, the end
of his life be fortunate. We often see misery dwelling in the
midst of splendor, whilst real happiness is found in humbler
stations.

Love of money is the disease which renders us most pitiful and
groveling, and love of pleasure is that which renders us most
despicable.

A wound inflicted by arrows heals, a wood cut down by an axe
grows, but harsh words are hateful—a wound inflicted by them does
not heal. Arrows of different sorts can be extracted from the
body, but a word-dart cannot be drawn out, for it is seated in
the heart.

To address a judicious remark to a thoughtless man is a mere
threshing of chaff.

Certain books seem to be written, not that we might learn from
them, but in order that we might see how much the author knows.

All that is old is not therefore necessarily excellent; all that
is new is not despicable on that account alone. Let what is
really meritorious be pronounced so by the candid judge after due
investigation; blockheads alone are influenced by the opinion
of others.

He that is ambitious of fame destroys it. He that increases not
his knowledge diminishes it. He that uses the crown of learning
as an instrument of gain will pass away.

The slightest inconveniences of the powerful are magnified into
calamities, while the miseries of the poor are entirely
disregarded; and yet some of the lower ranks of people undergo
more real hardships in one day than those of a more exalted
station suffer in their whole lives.

When men are doubtful of the true state of things, their wishes
lead them to believe in what is most agreeable.

Most men the good they have despise,
And blessings which they have not prize:
In winter, wish for summer’s glow,
In summer, long for winter’s snow.

The best conduct a man can adopt is that which gains him the
esteem of others without depriving him of his own.

Knowledge acquired by a man of low degree places him on a level
with a prince, as a small river attains the irremeable ocean;
and his fortune is then exalted.

An evil-minded man is quick to see
His neighbor’s faults, though small as mustard seed;
But when he turns his eyes towards his own,
Though large as bilva fruit, he none descries.

Two persons die remorseful: he who possessed and enjoyed not,
and he who knew but did not practice.

If a man conquer in battle a thousand times a thousand men, and
if another conquer himself, he is the greater of conquerors.

The man who is in the highest state of prosperity, and who thinks
his fortune is most secure, knows not if it will remain unchanged
till the evening.

If your foot slip, you may recover your balance, but if your
tongue slip, you cannot recall your words.

A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as the hollow mountain
returns all sounds.

By nature all men are alike, but by education very different.

Weak men gain their object when allied with strong associates;
the brook reaches the ocean by the river’s aid.

It is intolerable that a silly fool, with nothing but empty
birth to boast of, should in his insolence array himself in the
merits of others, and vaunt an honor which does not belong
to him.

We blame equally him who is too proud to put a proper value on
his own merit and him who prizes too highly his spurious worth.

Men are so simple, and yield so much to necessity, that he who
will deceive may always find him that will lend himself to
be deceived.

If you desire not to be poor, desire not to be too rich. He is
rich, not that possesses much, but he that covets no more; and
he is poor, not that enjoys little, but he that wants too much.

The contented mind wants nothing which it has not; the covetous
mind wants, not only what it has not, but likewise what it has.

No man of high and generous spirit is ever willing to indulge in
flattery; the good may feel affection for others, but will not
flatter them.

He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his
home.

There is a great difference between one who can feel ashamed
before his own soul and one who is only ashamed before his
fellow men.

By rousing himself, by earnestness, by restraint and control the
wise man may make for himself an island which no flood can
overwhelm.

How can we learn to know ourselves? By reflection, never, but by
our actions. Attempt to do your duty, and you will immediately
find what is in you.

What avails your wealth, if it makes you arrogant to the poor?

All confidence is dangerous unless it is complete; there are few
circumstances in which it is not better either to hide all or to
tell all.

A real friend, on the other hand, exults in his friend’s
happiness, rejoices in all his joys, and is ready to afford him
the best advice.

He who toils with pain will eat with pleasure.

A day of fortune is like a harvest-day, we must be busy when the
corn is ripe.

He who does not think too much of himself is much more esteemed
than he imagines.

The good man shuns evil and follows good; he keeps secret that
which ought to be hidden; he makes his virtues manifest to all;
he does not forsake one in adversity; he gives in season--such
are the marks of a worthy friend.

When you see a man elated with pride, glorying in his riches and
high descent, rising even above fortune, look out for his speedy
punishment; for he is only raised the higher that he may fall
with a heavier crash.

There are many who talk on from ignorance rather than from
knowledge, and who find the former an inexhaustible fund of
conversation.

Whoever brings cheerfulness to his work, and is ever active,
dashes through the world’s labors.

Do not consider any vice as trivial, and therefore practice it;
do not consider any virtue as unimportant, and therefore
neglect it.

Let a man accept with confidence valuable knowledge even from a
person of low degree, good instruction regarding duty even from
a humble man, and a jewel of a wife even from an ignoble family.

The friendships formed between good and evil men differ. The
friendship of the good, at first faint like the morning light,
continually increases; the friendship of the evil at the very
beginning is like the light of midday, and dies away like the
light of evening.

He who receives a favor must retain a recollection of it for all
time to come; but he who confers should at once forget it, if he
is not to show a sordid and ungenerous spirit. To remind a man
of a kindness conferred on him, and to talk of it, is little
different from a reproach.

A bad man is as much pleased as a good man is distressed to
speak ill of others.

Plans that are wise and prudent in themselves are rendered vain
when the execution of them is carried on negligently and with
imprudence.

As gold is tried by the furnace, and the baser metal shown, so
the hollow-hearted friend is known by adversity.

Truth from the mouth of an honest man and severity from a
good-natured man have a double effect.

Very distasteful is excessive fame
To the sour palate of the envious mind,
Who hears with grief his neighbors good by name,
And hates the fortune that he ne’er shall find.

The manner of giving shows the character of the giver more than
the gift itself. There is a princely manner of giving and
accepting.

Fair words without good deeds to a man in misery are like a
saddle of gold clapped upon a galled horse.

Wit and wisdom differ. Wit is upon the sudden turn, wisdom is in
bringing about ends.

Real and solid happiness springs from moderation.

The lake no longer water holds—
Off fly the fowls, the lilies stay:
If friends are friends when wealth is gone,
The lily’s constancy they share.

All property which comes to hand by means of violence, or infamy,
or baseness, however large it may be, is tainted and unblessed.
On the other hand, whatever is obtained by honest profit, small
though it be, brings a blessing with it.

Do naught to others which, if done to thee, would cause thee
pain: this is the sum of duty.

The man who cannot blush, and who has no feelings of fear, has
reached the acme of impudence.

If you only knew the evils which others suffer, you would
willingly submit to those which you now bear.

To our own sorrows serious heed we give,
But for another’s we soon cease to grieve.

There is nothing more beautiful than cheerfulness in an old face,
and among country people it is always a sign of a well-regulated
life.

From things which have been obtained after having been long
desired men almost never derive the pleasure and delight which
they had anticipated.

See thou good days? Prepare for evil times. No summer but hath
its winter. He never reaped comfort in adversity that sowed not
in prosperity.

It is not enough to know; we must apply what we know. It is not
enough to will; we must also act.

The wicked have no stability, for they do not remain in
consistency with themselves; they continue friends only for a
short time, rejoicing in each other’s wickedness.

It is easy to lose important opportunities, and difficult to
regain them; therefore when they present themselves it is the
more necessary to make every effort to retain them.

Idleness is a great enemy to mankind. There is no friend like
energy, for, if you cultivate that, it will never fail.

The greatest difficulties lie where we are not looking for them.

We magnify the wealthy man, though his parts be never so poor.
The poor man we despise, be he never so well qualified. Gold is
the coverlet of imperfections. It is the fool’s curtain, which
hides all his defects from the world.

Behavior is a mirror in which every one shows his image.

It is not easy to stop the fire when the water is at a distance;
friends at hand are better than relations afar off.

Noble birth is an accident of fortune, noble actions characterize
the great.

Experience has always shown, and reason shows, that affairs which
depend on many seldom succeed.

Skill in advising others is easily attained by men; but to
practice righteousness themselves is what only a few can succeed
in doing.

Understand a man by his deeds and words; the impressions of
others lead to false judgment.

A man of feeble character resembles a reed that bends with every
gust of wind.

There is no fire like passion; there is no shark like hatred;
there is no snare like folly; there is no torrent like greed.

Inquire about your neighbor before you build, and about your
companions before you travel.

Though you may yourself abound in treasure, teach your son some
handicraft; for a heavy purse of gold and silver may run to
waste, but the purse of the artisan’s industry can never
get empty.

Every gift, though small, is in reality great, if it be given
with affection.

Poverty is not dishonorable in itself, but only when it arises
from idleness, intemperance, extravagance, and folly.

Wisdom alone is the true and unalloyed coin for which we ought to
exchange all things, for this and with this everything is bought
and sold—fortitude, temperance, and justice; in a word, true
virtue subsists with wisdom.

If you intend to do a good act, do it quickly, and then you will
excite gratitude; a favor if it be slow in being conferred causes
ingratitude.

An absent friend gives us friendly company when we are well
assured of his happiness.

The man of worth is really great without being proud; the pompous
man is proud without being really great.

As a solid rock is not shaken by the wind, so wise men falter not
amidst blame or praise.

Let every man sweep the snow from before his own doors, and not
busy himself about the frost on his neighbor’s tiles.

Leave not the business of today to be done tomorrow; for who
knows what may be your condition tomorrow? The rose garden, which
today is full of flowers, when tomorrow you'd want to pluck a
rose, may not afford you one.

The worth of a horse is known by its speed, the value of oxen by
their carrying power, the worth of a cow by its milk-giving
capacity, and that of a wise man by his speech.

There is nothing keeps longer than a middling fortune, and
nothing melts away sooner than a great one. Poverty treads upon
the heels of great and unexpected riches.

Avoid that friend, if you are wise, who consorts with your
enemies.

Harsh reproof is like a violent storm, soon washed down the
channel; but friendly admonitions, like a small shower, pierce
deep, and bring forth better reformation.

A foolish man in wealth and authority is like a weak-timbered
house with a too-ponderous roof.

Scratch yourself with your own nails; always do your own
business, and when you intend asking for a service, go to a
person who can appreciate your merit.

No joy in nature is so sublimely affecting as the joy of a mother
at the good fortune of a child.

Want and sorrow are the gifts which folly earns for itself.

Those who cause dissensions in order to injure other people are
preparing pitfalls for their own ruin.

Talents are best nurtured in solitude; character is best formed
in the stormy billows of the world.

It is the character of a simpleton to be a bore. A man of sense
sees at once whether he is welcome or tiresome; he knows to
withdraw the moment that precedes that in which he would be in
the least in the way.

The man of first rate excellence is virtuous in spite of
instruction; he of the middle class is so after instruction; the
lowest order of men are vicious in spite of instruction.

A brave man is clear in his discourse, and keeps close to truth.

The mind attracted by what is false has no relish for better
things.

A day may sink or save a realm.

A democracy is a state in which the government rests directly
with the majority of the citizens.

One is quick to suspect where one has suffered harm before.

Virtue is the strongest shield.

Be sure to preserve an unruffled mind in adversity, as well as
one restrained from immoderate joy in prosperity.

It is fair that he who begs to be forgiven should in turn
forgive.

Idleness of mind is the blight of genius.

A favor does not consist in the service done, but in the spirit
of the man who confers it.

A fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and
a pebble in the hand of a fool.

A fool always finds a greater fool to admire him.

A fool and his money are soon parted.

A fool is often as dangerous to deal with as a knave, and always
more incorrigible.

A fool is wise in his own conceit.

A fool may sometimes have talent, but he never has judgment.

A friendship will be young at the end of a century, a passion
old at the end of three months.

A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.

A good king is a public servant.

A great revolution is never the fault of the 5 people, but of
the government.

A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honor.

Easy to say is hard to do.

A judge who cannot punish, associates himself in the end with
the criminal.

We keep the faults of others before our eyes; our own behind
our backs.

It is best to profit by the madness of other people.

All men who know not where to look for truth, save in the narrow
well of self, will find their own image at the bottom and mistake
it for what they are seeking.

The deepest rivers flow with the least noise.

Always win fools first; they talk much, and what they have once
uttered they will stick to.

A man cannot whistle and drink at the same time.

A man lives by believing something; not by debating and arguing
about many things.

A man who cannot mind his own business is not to be trusted
with anyone else's.

A proverb is good sense brought to a point.

A purpose you impart is no longer your own.

He who has nothing to sell loses his market.

To him who has a good wife no evil can come which he cannot bear.

Our misfortunes are often lightened by relating them to a
trusted friend.

A ragged colt may make a good horse.

It is poverty of spirit that God delights in—poverty, and not
beggarliness.

A sorrow shared is but half a trouble,
But a joy that's shared is a joy made double.

Enough is enough, and too much spoils.

He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope.

He has enough who is content.

A thing of beauty is a joy for ever;
Its loveliness increases; it will never
Pass into nothingness.

Better a blush in the face than a blot in the heart.

Bullies are generally cowards in disguise.

But pleasures are like poppies spread,
You seize the flower, its bloom is shed;
Or, like the snowfall on the river,
A moment white—then melts for ever.

Fools buy what they do not want and sell what they cannot spare.

By desiring little, a poor man makes himself rich.

By others' faults wise men correct their own.

By seeking and blundering we learn.

By strength of heart the sailor fights with roaring seas.

Caution is the parent of safety.

It is a great misfortune not to have enough of ability to speak
well, nor sense enough to hold one's tongue.

That animal is very vicious; it defends itself if you attack it.

Those who talk much never say anything worth listening to.

Those who occupy their minds too much with small matters
generally become incapable of great.

Charms which, like flowers, lie on the surface and always
glitter, easily produce vanity; whereas other excellences,
which lie deep like gold and are discovered with difficulty,
leave their possessors modest and proud.

Those who sleep with dogs will rise up with fleas.

Cheerfulness is the best promoter of health, and is as friendly
to the mind as to the body.

He who is a jackass and thinks he is a stag, will find his error
when he has to leap a ditch.

Let not him whose head is of wax walk in the sun.

Children should laugh, but not mock; and when they laugh, it
should not be at the weaknesses and the faults of others.

He who goes softly goes safely, and he who goes safely goes far.

He who goes himself, means it; he who sends another does
not care.

He who wants the water pure must go to the spring-head.

He who wishes a thing done quickly and well, must do it himself.

Choose your wife as you wish your children to be.

Circumstances are beyond the control of man, but his conduct is
in his own power.

Keep thy mouth shut, but thy eyes open.

Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly
hides itself, to enhance its beauty.

Commonsense is the average sensibility and intelligence of men
undisturbed by individual peculiarities.

Commonsense is the measure of the possible; it is calculation
applied to life.

Compassion to the offender who has grossly violated the laws is,
in effect, a cruelty to the peaceable subject who has observed
them.

Confess you were wrong yesterday; it will show you are
wise today.

Confidence imparts a wondrous inspiration to its possessor.
It bears him on in security, either to meet no danger or to
find matter of glorious trial.

Confidence in another man's virtue is no slight evidence of
a man's own.

Courage consists not in blindly overlooking danger, but in
meeting it with the eyes open.

Courage consists not in hazarding without fear, but being
resolutely minded in a just cause.

Courtesy costs nothing.

Courtesy is often sooner found in lowly sheds with smoky rafters,
than in tapestry halls and courts of princes, where it first
was named.

Fear the worst from an enraged author.

Anxiety accompanies increasing wealth, and a craving for still
greater riches.

The love of money increases as wealth increases.

Cruel men are the greatest lovers of mercy; avaricious, of
generosity; proud, of humility—only in others.

Thinking is not knowing.

Where the end is lawful the means are also lawful.

As a shoe, when too large, is apt to trip one, and when too
small, to pinch the feet; so is it with him whose fortune
does not suit him.

Every one is liable to err; none but a fool will persevere
in error.

Cunning leads to knavery; 'tis but a step, and that a very
slippery, from the one to the other. Lying only makes the
difference; add that to cunning, and it is knavery.

Where no good is in, no good comes out.

The first and last thing which is required of genius is love
of truth.

Allow time and slight delay; haste and violence ruin everything.

The seal of truth is simplicity.

Misfortune cannot endure wisdom, but wisdom can endure
misfortune.

Nobility of soul is more honorable than nobility by birth.

Deal so plainly with man and woman as to constrain the utmost
sincerity and destroy all hope of trifling with you.

Death and life are in the power of the tongue.

Deeds survive the doers.

The mind is slow in unlearning what it has been long learning.

Delay has always been injurious to those who are ready.

We must take time for deliberation, where we have to determine
once for all.

Deliberate with caution, but act with decision; and yield with
graciousness or oppose with firmness.

Delusion may triumph, but the triumphs of delusion are but
for a day.

Let no one imagine that he is the man the world has been waiting
for as its deliverer.

The empty bag is blown up with wind, the empty head with
self-conceit.

The profit which comes late is better than none at all.

We must spurn him as a worthless man who never applies his
brains to what he is working at.

Depart from the highway and transplant thyself in some enclosed
ground; for it is hard for a tree that stands by the wayside to
keep her fruit till it be ripe.

The poor do penance for the sins of the rich.

The spirit from which we act is the principal matter.

The historian is a prophet with his face turned backwards.

He cannot complain of a hard sentence who is made master of
his own fate.

The wise man has long ears and a short tongue.

He will always lack what is best who does not give credit to
what others know.

The gardener's business is to root out the weeds and tend
the flowers.

Distinction is the consequence, never the object, of a
great mind.

To be born in a duck's nest in a farmyard is of no consequence
to a bird if it is hatched from a swan's egg.

The history of a man is in his character.

It is always through a weakness that the greatest men are
connected with their generation.

What is lost in the fire must be searched for in the ashes.

Love converts the cottage into a palace of gold.

Difficulties increase the nearer we approach the goal.

The sweetest grapes hang highest.

He who undertakes too much seldom succeeds.

The loyal heart of the good man is in these times the only
storm-proof place of shelter.

The virtue of the man who lives according to the commands of
reason manifests itself quite as much in avoiding as in
overcoming danger.

Virtue is man's highest good, vice works him nought but woe.

Virtue unrewarded is doubly beautiful.

The fickle mob, how they are driven round by every wind that
blows! Woe to him who leans on this reed!

The wise weigh their words in the balance of the goldsmith.

It is difficult for one who has enjoyed uninterrupted good
fortune to have a due reverence for virtue.

It is difficult to handle a common theme with originality.

It is difficult to feign mirth when one is in a gloomy mood.

It is more difficult to restore harmony than sow dissension.

Difficulties are meant to rouse, not discourage.

Difficulties are things that show what men are.

Difficulties may surround our path, but if the difficulties be
not in ourselves, they may generally be overcome.

Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body.

A little 40 man often casts a long shadow.

Disappointment is often the salt of life.

Each learns more readily, and retains more willingly, what makes
him laugh than what he approves of and respects.

Discontentment is like ink poured into water, which fills the
whole fountain full of blackness. It casts a cloud over the mind,
and renders it more occupied about the evil which disquiets it
than  about the means of removing it.

Discontentment makes us to lose what we have; contentment gets
us what we want. Fretting never removed a cross nor procured a
comfort; quiet submission doth both.

Discretion and hard valor are the twins of honor,
And, nursed together, make a conqueror;
Divided, but a talker.

Discretion is the best part of valor.

Discretion is the perfection of reason, and a guide to us in all
the duties of life.

Discretion is the salt, and fancy the sugar, of life; the one
preserves, the other sweetens it.

Dishonesty is the forsaking of permanent for temporary
advantages.

Dishonest men conceal their faults from themselves as well as
others; honest men know and confess them.

Give, but, if possible, spare the poor man the shame of holding
out the hand.

Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.

Don't throw away your old shoes until you've got new ones.

The cultivation of friendship with the powerful is pleasant to
the inexperienced, but he who has experienced it dreads it.

Silent dogs and still waters are dangerous.

He who follows two hares is sure to catch neither.

The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.

There is but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous.

Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy,
and wise.

Earnestness in life, even when carried to an extreme, is
something very noble and great.

Earnestness is enthusiasm tempered by reason.

We disregard the things which lie under our eyes; indifferent to
what is close at hand, we inquire after things that are far away.

Easy writing's cursed hard reading.

Eccentricity is sometimes found connected with genius, but it
does not coalesce with true wisdom.

Be man noble, helpful, and good; for that alone distinguishes
him from all the beings we know.

Education commences at the mother's knee, and every word spoken
within the hearing of little children tends towards the
formation of character.

Egotists are the pest of society.

Egotists cannot converse; they talk to themselves only.

Jealousy is a passion which seeks with zeal what yields only
misery.

Self-love clouds the eyes.

A poison which does not take immediate effect is therefore none
the less a dangerous poison.

It is a great mistake for people to think themselves more than
they are, and to value themselves less than they are worth.

A heart which tortures itself with anxiety has seldom hours
of gladness.

It is very much easier to bind a wreath than to find a head
worthy to wear it.

A long hope is sweeter than a short surprise.

A man who intends to work rightly must select the most effective
instrument.

A man without understanding is also a man without will or
purpose.

A working millstone does not become covered with moss.

A vulgar mind is proud in prosperity and humble in adversity;
a noble mind is humble in prosperity and proud in adversity.

A drop of hate that is left in the cup of joy converts the
blissful draught into poison.

The evil man always suspects some knavish intention.

Eloquence, at its highest pitch, leaves little room for reason
or reflection, but addresses itself entirely to the fancy or
the affections, captivates the willing hearers, and subdues
their understanding.

Eloquence is the power to translate a truth into language
perfectly intelligible to the person to whom you speak.

Buy not what you want, but what you need; what you don't want is
dear at a cent.

It is better to give than to have nothing to give.

One true friend is better than a hundred relations.

Wisdom never contemplates what will make a happy man.

Empty vessels make the most noise.

Energy may be turned to bad uses; but more good may always be
made of an energetic nature than of an indolent and
impassive one.

Enjoying things which are pleasant, that is not the evil; it is
the reducing of our moral self to slavery by them that is.

Enjoyment stops when indolence begins.

Enjoy the blessings of this day if God sends them, and bear the
evils patiently and sweetly. For this day only is ours; we are
dead to yesterday and we are not born to tomorrow.

Enjoy your own life without comparing it with that of another.

Love, in fact, can never be deep unless it is pure.

One who is willing to help does not wait till he is asked.

Envy is the deformed and distorted offspring of egotism.

Envy is the most acid fruit that grows on the stock of sin, a
fluid so subtle that nothing but the fire of divine love can
purge it from the soul.

Duty fulfilled ever entails a sense of further obligation,
because one feels he has never done enough to satisfy himself.

Error is always more busy than ignorance. Ignorance is a blank
sheet on which we may write, but error is a scribbled one from
which we must first erase.

First weigh, then venture.

He spun from himself like a spider.

There are certain things in which a woman's vision is sharper
than a hundred eyes of the male.

It is better to do the smallest thing in the world than to
regard half an hour as a small thing.

It shows sense and courage to be able to confront
unavoidable evil.

There are situations in life when it is wisdom not to be
too wise.

They are as good cats that chase away the mice as those that
catch them.

A great man often steps forth from a humble cottage.

A word, once uttered, flies abroad never to be recalled.

To conquer without peril would be to conquer without glory.

Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.

Every author, in some degree, portrays himself in his works,
be it even against his will.

Every brave life out of the past does not appear to us so brave
as it really was, for the forms of terror with which it wrestled
are now overthrown.

Every day should be spent by us as if it were to be our last.

Every healthy effort is directed from the inward to the outward
world.

Everything that tends to emancipate us from external restraint
without adding to our own power of self-government is
mischievous.

Every unpunished murder takes away something from the security
of every man's life.

Every violation of truth is a stab at the health of society.

Every wanton and causeless restraint of the will of the subject,
whether practised by a monarch, a nobility, or a popular
assembly, is a degree of tyranny.

Evil communications corrupt good manners.

We live more by example than reason.

Perseverance conquers all difficulties.

Friends are to be estimated from deeds, not words.

It is but a small matter to be good in the eye of the law only.

From the faults of another a wise man will correct his own.

The poor man who enters into partnership with a rich makes a
risky venture.

His actions do not harmonise with his words.

Facts are apt to alarm us more than the most dangerous
principles.

False friends are like our shadow, close to us while we walk in
the sunshine, but leaving us the instant we cross into the shade.

False modesty is the masterpiece of vanity.

Falsehood is cowardice; truth is courage.

Falsehood is easy, truth is difficult.

Falsehood is never so successful as when she baits her hook
with truth.

Falsehood, like poison, will generally be rejected when
administered alone; but when blended with wholesome ingredients
may be swallowed unperceived.

Nothing circulates more swiftly than scandal.

Fame is but the breath of the people, and that often unwholesome.

Fate steals along with silent tread,
Found oftenest in what least we dread;
Frowns in the storm with angry brow,
But in the sunshine strikes the blow.

Fear can keep a man out of danger, but courage only can support
him in it.

Fear is far more painful to cowardice than death to true courage.

Fellowship in treason is a bad ground of confidence.

Birds of a feather flock together.

How often it happens that men fall into the very evils they are
striving to avoid.

Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.

Few men are much worth loving in whom there is not something
well worth laughing at.

Few things are impracticable in themselves; and it is from want
of application rather than want of means that men fail
of success.

Few things are more unpleasant than the transaction of business
with men who are above knowing or caring what they have to do.

Fine manners are the mantle of fair minds. None are truly great
without this ornament.

Fine words without deeds go not far.

Firmness, both in sufferance and exertion, is a character I
would wish to possess. I have always despised the whining yelp
of complaint and the cowardly feeble resolve.

First keep thyself in peace, and then thou shalt be able to keep
eace among others.

A smith becomes a smith by working at the forge.

Flatter not the rich; neither willingly before the powerful.

Flatterers are cats that lick before, and scratch behind.

Flatterers are the worst kind of traitors.

Flattery sits in the parlor when plain dealing is kicked out
of doors.

Foolish legislation is a rope of sand, which perishes in the
twisting.

Foolish people are a hundred times more averse to meet with wise
people than wise people are to meet with foolish.

Fools and obstinate men make lawyers rich.

Fools, to talking ever prone,
Are sure to make their follies known.

Fools with bookish knowledge are children with edged weapons;
they hurt themselves and put others in pain.

For an honest man half his wits are enough; for a knave, the
whole are too little.

For aught that ever I could read,
Could ever hear by tale or history,
The course of true love never did run smooth.

Forbearance is not acquittance.

Forbid a fool do a thing, and that he will do.

Perhaps it will be a delight to us some day to recall these
misfortunes. Bear them, therefore, and reserve yourselves for
better times.

The approach of liberty makes even an old man brave.

A brave man may fall, but cannot yield.

It shows a brave and resolute spirit not to be agitated in
exciting circumstances.

Freedom consists not in refusing to recognise anything above us,
but in respecting something which is above us.

Freethinkers are generally those who never think at all.

Frequent and loud laughter is the characteristic of folly and
ill-manners.

Fretting cares make grey hairs.

Friendship is a sturdy stick to travel with; love a slender cane
to promenade with.

Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.

Friends are rare, for the good reason that men are not common.

Friends, like mushrooms, spring up in out-of-the-way places.

From the summit of power men no longer turn their eyes upward,
but begin to look about them.

Judge of a tree from its fruit, not from its leaves

Glory draws all bound to her shining car, low-born and high-born
alike.

Full many a stoic eye and aspect stern
Masks hearts where grief has little left to learn;
And many a withering thought lies hid, not lost,
In smiles that least befit who wears them most.

Patience, when outraged often, is converted into rage

A mewing cat is never a good mouser.

Virtue rejoices in being put to the test.

Love that is forced does not last.

General truths are seldom applied to particular occasions.

Generosity during life is a very different thing from generosity
in the hour of death; one proceeds from genuine liberality and
benevolence, the other from pride or fear.

Genius and virtue, like diamonds, are best plain set.

Genius begins great works, labor alone finishes them.

Genius can never despise labor.

Genius is nothing but labor and diligence.

Genius is nothing but a great capacity for patience.

Genius is nothing more than our common faculties refined to a
greater intensity.

Gentle passions brighten the horizon of our existence, move
without wearying, warm without consuming, and are the badges
of true strength.

Gentle words, quiet words, are, after all, the most powerful
words. They are more convincing, more compelling, more
prevailing.

Gentleman is a term which does not apply to any station, but to
the mind and the feelings in every station.

Gentlemen have to learn that it is no part of their duty or
privilege to live on other people's toil; that there is no
degradation in the hardest manual or the humblest servile
labor, when it is honest.

Gentleness, when it weds with manhood, makes a man.

Lawless power is the most frightful weakness.

Give a rogue rope enough, and he will hang himself.

Gifts from the hand are silver and gold, but the heart gives that
which neither silver nor gold can buy.

Give me the liberty to know, to think, to believe, and to utter
freely, according to conscience, above all other liberties.

Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.

Give not that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast your
pearls before swine.

Glories, like glow-worms, afar-off shine bright,
But looked at near, have neither heat nor light.

Glorious men are the scorn of wise men, the admiration of fools,
the idols of parasites, and the slaves of their own vaunts.

God alone can properly bind up a bleeding heart.

God answers sharp and sudden on some prayers,
And thrusts the thing we have prayed for in our face,
A gauntlet with a gift in it.

Gold does not satisfy love; it must be paid in its own coin.

Gold glitters most when virtue shines no more.

Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions
in others.

Good advice can be given, a good name cannot be given.

Good humor may be said to be one of the very best articles of
dress one can wear in society.

Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we
converse. Whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best
bred in the company.

Good-sense and good-nature are never separated, though the
ignorant world has thought otherwise.

Good words do more than hard speeches; as the sunbeams, without
any noise, will make the traveller cast off his cloak, which all
the blustering winds could not do, but only make him bind it
closer to him.

Good writing and brilliant discourse are perpetual allegories.

Government of the people, by the people and for the people, shall
not perish from the earth.

Great wealth is not gotten in a few hours.

Granted the ship comes into harbor with shrouds and tackle
damaged; the pilot is blameworthy; he has not been all-wise
and all-powerful; but to know how blameworthy, tell us first
whether his voyage has been round the globe or only to nearby
destinations.

The hour of happiness will come the more welcome when it is not
expected.

No burden is really heavy to a man which necessity lays on him.

Great acts grow out of great occasions, and great occasions
spring from great principles, working changes in society and
tearing it up by the roots.

Great fleas have little fleas
Upon their backs to bite 'em;
And little fleas have lesser fleas,
And so ad infinitum.

Great haste makes great waste.

Great honors are great burdens; but on whom
They're cast with envy, he doth bear two loads.

Great poets try to describe what all men see and to express
what all men feel; if they cannot describe it, they let it alone.

Great results cannot be achieved at once; and we must be
satisfied to advance in life as we walk, step by step.

Great talents are rare, and they rarely recognise themselves.

Great talkers are like leaky pitchers, everything runs out
of them.

The entire flock in the fields dies of the disease introduced
by one.

Grief knits two hearts in closer bonds than happiness ever can,
and common sufferings are far stronger links than common joys.

A good conscience is a soft pillow.

Kindness breaks no one's bones.

Good advice may be given, but manners not.

Habits are at first cobwebs, at last cables.

Habits leave their impress upon the mind, even after they
are given up.

Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim.

Be this the first law established in friendship, that we neither
ask of others what is dishonourable, nor ourselves do it
when asked.

Half a loaf is better than no bread.

Half the ease of life oozes away through the leaks of
unpunctuality.

You have assumed this part, and you must act it out.

Happiness grows at our own firesides, and is not to be picked
up in strangers' galleries.

Happiness is deceitful as the calm that precedes the hurricane,
smooth as the water on the verge of the cataract, and beautiful
as the rainbow, that smiling daughter of the storm.

Happy he whose last hour strikes in the midst of his children.

Haste and rashness are storms and tempests, breaking and wrecking
business; but nimbleness is a full, fair wind, blowing it with
speed to the haven.

He alone is worthy of respect who knows what is of use to himself
and others, and who labours to control his self will.

He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.

He cannot see the forest for the trees.

He is a strong man who can hold down his opinion.

He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has
not, but rejoices for those which he has.

He is an unfortunate and on the way to ruin who will not do what
he can, but is ambitious to do what he cannot.

He is an eloquent man who can speak of low things acutely, and of
great things with dignity, and of moderate things with temper.

He is best served who has no need to put the hands of others at
the end of his arms.

He knows the water the best who has waded through it.

He that does not knot his thread will lose his first stitch.

He that hath gained an entire conquest over himself will find no
mighty difficulties to subdue all other opposition.

He that is courteous at all, will be courteous to all.

He that undervalues himself will undervalue others, and he that
undervalues others will oppress them.

He who is only half instructed speaks much, and is always wrong;
he who knows it wholly, is content with acting, and speaks
seldom or late.

He who makes constant complaint gets little compassion.

He who strikes terror into others is himself in continual fear.

He who thinks too much will accomplish little.

He who will eat the nut must first crack it.

He who would be everywhere will be nowhere.

He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.

He who would pry behind the scenes oft sees a counterfeit.

He whose actions sink him even beneath the vulgar has no right to
those distinctions which should be the reward only of merit.

He whose sympathy goes lowest is the man from whom kings have
the most to fear.

He will never have true friends who is afraid of making enemies.

His speech was like a tangled chain;
Nothing impaired, but all disordered.
